Docs/documentation 2.0 (#158)
sse-secure-systems/connaisseur: docs/getting_started.md

- [Features](./features/README.md): *using additional features (e.g. alerting)*

In case you need help, feel free to reach out via [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/sse-secure-systems/connaisseur/discussions) :wave:

## Requirements

You should have a Kubernetes test cluster running.
Furthermore, `docker`, `git`, `helm` and `kubectl` should be installed and usable, i.e. having run `docker login` and switched to the appropriate `kubectl` context.

## Create signing key pairs

Before getting started with Connaisseur, we need to create our signing key pair.
This obviously depends on the signing solution.
Here, we will walk you through it for DCT and Cosign.
In case you have already worked with Docker Content Trust or Cosign before and already possess key pairs, you can skip this step (how to retrieve a previously created DCT key is described [here](./validators/notaryv1.md#getting-the-root-key).
Otherwise, pick your preferred signing scheme below.

In case you are uncertain which solution to go with, you might be better of to start with DCT, as it comes packaged with `docker`.

> Cosign on the other hand is somewhat more straightforward to use.

Author: won't be experimental just after release, so that won't age well

> Cosign on the other hand is somewhat more straightforward to use.

Author: and I am mentioning that it is pre-release state below

    - name: default
      type: notaryv1  # or other supported validator (e.g. "cosign")
      host: notary.docker.io # configure the notary server to be used
      trust_roots:
      # the `default` key is used if no key is specified in image policy
      - name: default
        key: |  # enter your key below
          -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
          MFkwEwYHKoZIzj0CAQYIKoZIzj0DAQcDQgAELDzXwqie/P66R3gVpFDWMhxOyol5
          YWD/KWnAaEIcJVTYUR+21NJSZz0yL7KLGrv50H9kHai5WWVsVykOZNoZYQ==
          -----END PUBLIC KEY-----
      # cert: |  # for communication, using a selfsigned certificate
      #   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
      #   ...
      #   -----END CERTIFICATE-----
      # auth:  # basic authentication against the notary server
      #   # either
      #   username: notaryuser
      #   password: notarypass
      #   # or
      #   secret_name: notarysecret  # define a k8s secret with `username` and `password` fields
    ```

=== "Cosign"
    
    _For Cosign, the `type` needs to be set to `cosign` and the `host` is not required._

    ```yaml
    # the `default` validator is used if no validator is specified in image policy
    - name: default

>       type: cosign  # or other supported validator (e.g. "cosign")

Author: that is a quote from the helm/values.yaml which I would keep as people will not change comments and in that case, this is what it looks like

```bash
NAME                                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/connaisseur-deployment-6876c87c8c-txrkj   1/1     Running   0          2m9s
pod/connaisseur-deployment-6876c87c8c-wvr7q   1/1     Running   0          2m9s
pod/connaisseur-deployment-6876c87c8c-rnc7k   1/1     Running   0          2m9s

NAME                      TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
service/connaisseur-svc   ClusterIP   10.152.183.166   <none>        443/TCP   2m10s

NAME                                     READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
deployment.apps/connaisseur-deployment   3/3     3            3           2m9s

NAME                                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
replicaset.apps/connaisseur-deployment-6876c87c8c   3         3         3       2m9s
```

## Test Connaisseur

Now that we created our key pairs, configured and deployed Connaisseur, the next step is to test our setup.
So let's create and push a testimage.
Feel free to use our simple test Dockerfile under `tests/Dockerfile` (make sure to set your own `IMAGE` name):

```bash
# Typically, IMAGE=<REGISTRY>/<REPOSITORY-NAME>/<IMAGE-NAME>:<TAG>, like

> IMAGE=docker.io/xoph/demo:test

Author: that is true, but in case someone keeps that. I won't necessarily fail and use the preconfigured validator...kind of did not like that

> IMAGE=docker.io/xoph/demo:test

Author: will try though

> # Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Getting started
```

Author: as before, I would like to keep page titles capitalized

This guide offers a simple default configuration for setting up Connaisseur using public infrastructure and verifying your first self-signed images.
You will learn how to:

1. [Create signing key pairs](#create-signing-key-pairs)
2. [Configure Connaisseur](#configure-connaisseur)
3. [Deploy Connaisseur](#deploy-connaisseur)
4. [Test Connaisseur](#test-connaisseur) *(and sign images)*
5. [Cleanup](#cleanup)

In the tutorial, you can choose to use either Notary (V1) via Docker Content Trust (DCT) or Cosign from the Sigstore project as a signing solution referred to as DCT and Cosign from here on.
Furthermore we will work with public images on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/) as a container registry and a Kubernetes test cluster which might for example be [MicroK8s](https://microk8s.io/) or [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/) for local setups.

> However, feel free to bring your own solutions for registry or cluster and checkout our notes on [compatibility](./README.md#compatibility).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, feel free to bring your own solutions for registry or cluster and check out our notes on [compatibility](./README.md#compatibility).
```
